#summary Sproxel user manual.

= Modeling with Sproxel =

----

==Mouse Controls==
The mouse controls the movement of the camera and the creation and manipulation of filled cells in the voxel grid.

*Camera Controls:*
The camera controls are identical to that in Autodesk's Maya.  Holding the *ALT* key drops the 3d view into camera control mode.

  * *ALT* + *LEFT MOUSE BUTTON* - Rotate the camera around its center of interest.
  * *ALT* + *MIDDLE MOUSE BUTTON* - Translate the camera orthographic to its look direction.
  * *ALT* + *RIGHT MOUSE BUTTON* - Translate the camera towards its look point (feels like a scale).
  * *ALT* + *LEFT MOUSE BUTTON* + *MIDDLE MOUSE BUTTON* - Scale (same as RMB).

<br>
*Cell Manipulation:*
Cells are created by shooting a ray through the pixel you click, intersecting it with the voxel grid, and modifying the grid cells the ray intersects.  A configuration system to re-map these mouse combinations is in the works (and on the [http://code.google.com/p/sproxel/wiki/FeatureRequests Feature Request] wiki).

  * *LEFT MOUSE BUTTON* - Operate the tool selected in the toolbar.
  * *RIGHT MOUSE BUTTON* (Erase tool) - Clear the color in the first colored cell the ray intersects.
  * *MIDDLE MOUSE BUTTON* (Pixel-Sample tool) - Sample the palette's foreground  color from the first voxel intersected (eye dropper).
  * *CTRL* + *LEFT MOUSE BUTTON* (Replace tool) - Replace the first voxel the ray intersects  with the current color.

<br>
*Toolbar:*
All tools selected in the toolbar are operated by a *LEFT CLICK* in the modeling window.  

  * *Splat tool (green splat icon)* - Place a cell of the current color in the last grid cell the ray intersects before it hits another filled cell.  This can be thought of as shooting a wad of paint into the voxel grid.
  * *Replace tool (yellow pencil icon)* - Replace the first voxel the ray intersects with the current color.
  * *Flood-fill tool (paint bucket icon)* - Replace the color of the intersected voxel and all neighboring voxels of the same color with the palette's foreground color.
  * *Pixel-Sample tool (eye dropper icon)* - Sample the intersected voxel's color into the palette's foreground color.
  * *Erase tool (eraser icon)* - Clear the color for the intersected voxel.
  * *Slab tool (filled plane in grid icon)* - Set an entire slice of voxels to the palette's foreground color.  If a filled voxel is intersected fill from that location, otherwise fill from the first voxel intersected on the edge.  The orientation of the slab is controlled by setting the current axis (*ALT*+*X* -or- *ALT*+*Y* -or- *ALT*+*Z*).

----

==Keyboard Controls==
WIP: The quick-quick summary is that the holding *ALT* and using the *ARROW KEYS* moves the camera, the *ARROW KEYS* on their own move the cursor (it adjusts according to the direction your camera is facing), *CTRL* + *UP/DOWN ARROW* shifts the cursor in camera depth, and the *SPACE BAR* fills the voxel with the current color.

----

== Misc Controls ==
(<font color="#880000">Red</font> entries will be present in the next release.)
 * *Q* - Change to the Splat tool.
 * *W* - Change to the Replace tool.
 * *E* - Change to the Flood-fill tool.
 * *R* - Change to the Pixel-sample tool.
 * *T* - Change to the Erase tool.
 * *Y* - Change to the Slab tool.

 * *X* - Swap foreground and background colors.
 * *G* - Toggle voxel grid visibility.
 * *F* - Frame the voxels in the scene (or the voxel grid if there are none).
 * *CTRL* + *F* - Frame the entire voxel grid regardless of the voxels in scene.

 * *CTRL* + *N* - Bring up new file dialog.
 * *CTRL* + *S* - Save current voxel grid.
 * *CTRL* + *O* - Open voxel grid from disk.
 * *CTRL* + *Z* - Undo
 * *CTRL* + *SHIFT* + *Z* - Redo
 * *CTRL* + *C* - Bring up color picker (this will change).
 * *CTRL* + *G* - Toggle ground plane grid visibility.
 * *ALT* + *X* - Set the X plane as your working plane.
 * *ALT* + *Y* - Set the Y plane as your working plane.
 * *ALT* + *Z* - Set the Z plane as your working plane.

----

== Mac Note ==

Anywhere it says *CTRL*, use *Command* instead.